## **1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?**  
I currently work as a research scientist thinking that someday I’ll go to grad school. However, the more I work, the more I realize that the path of research is not for me. In the midst of confusion and uncertainty about my career and future, I heard about Ada. The thought of programming brings back memories of when I was a middle schooler and myspace was the “hip” place to be. I had fun taking layout codes and then tweaking it to design my desired profile. I didn’t know anything about coding at the time, but the trial and error process was thrilling to me. The satisfaction when I found the portion of code that corresponded with the color of fonts was indescribable. As an undergrad, I took one introductory coding class that taught me how to use JAVA. I enjoyed learning the way that coders think and felt like it resonates with how I approach my everyday problem solving. But as much as I liked the class, there was just something about the environment that made me feel like I didn’t belong. Not sure if it was because I was among the few females in the class? Regardless, this feeling of uneasiness compounded with the thought that my path was meant to be science, deterred me away from coding. Now, years later, I’m ready to challenge coding in-depth and fully commit myself to something that I’ve always been interested in but never properly pursued.

## **2. If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?**  
In 5 years’ time, I would have volunteered to redesign the website for A/E volleyball, a local Seattle based league. I remember when I was first trying to get involved playing volleyball, I couldn’t help but think that the A/E website was poorly designed. It was so confusing to navigate that I even put off signing up. One of my goals is to redesign the website so that other volleyball enthusiasts like myself can easily come together because the A/E volleyball program is great, despite the website not doing it justice. After accomplishing that, I see myself working in a team that designs technology. I want to contribute to building computers and smartphones, and similar electronics that I enjoy using. Or maybe even work on artificial reality for gaming or artificial intelligence for cars? I honestly don’t know at this point but I’m so excited just thinking of the tools Ada will equip me with and all the possible routes I can go. 

## **3. After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community? http://adadevelopersacademy.org/program**  
I grew up in a very traditional Vietnamese household located in a predominately Caucasian neighborhood and attended a predominately Caucasian school. I could not help but feel isolated when there were differences in the values and culture with my classmates or when I was the only one taking out of class to attend supplemental ESL lessons. Because of my past experience, I feel I have a responsibility to our community as someone who understands the feelings of alienation. My experiences allow me to build trust and a connection with others who are isolated and feared. Not only am I more tolerable and welcoming of those who are different, but I am confident that my background of having learned Spanish, Korean and Japanese will bring a diversified point of view and help enrich Ada.

## **4. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?**  
As the only English speaker in my family, I’ve grown accustomed to relying on myself. That’s just the way I approached school because my parents were busy working and didn’t have the capacity to help me. This way of thinking became my norm. So in college, when I was put in a group to work on a presentation, I took it upon myself to do everything. However, this quickly became overwhelming and was essentially unrealistic and inefficient. If I could approach this project again, I would learn to trust and rely on my teammates. Instead of trying to single-handedly do everything, I would use my observational skills and suggest ways to split up the project based on each member’s strength and weakness in order to create a great presentation.
